---
layout: page
title: "Zeus"
category: doc
date: 2015-06-10 10:05:34
---

Zeus is the build and project management tool used for Athena game projects.
The goal of Zeus is to simplify project creation, building, and deployment for users.
Additionally, Zeus provides an API for working with Athena game projects for tools.
At the time of writing, not everything in this documentation is implemented yet.

This documentation is about the technical details of Zeus. If you are looking for
the command-line interface's help, run `zeuscli help`.

### Frontends

Zeus has 2 frontends included in the GitHub repository.

- *zeuscli*, a command-line tool for automating and integrating with a command-line
  based development workflow.
- *zeusgui*, a graphical interface for ease of use. This frontend is currently
  implemented using the conrod UI library. It will be migrated to Phosphorus once
  that project is ready to be used.

### Project Structure

A Zeus project contains everything needed for Zeus to know how to build it into a
game, as well as cached data, plugins and Athena tools source code. Tool source is
needed to allow plugins to be baked in at compile time. Zeus builds the tools behind
the scenes to make it appear seamless.

The directory structure of a Zeus project is as following:

```
- MyProject
|- target          # Anything in target is generated by Zeus, not meant to be included in the project's repository
||- debug/release  # Contains binaries and processed assets for the game, plugins and tools
||- tools          # Contains downloaded source files of tools
|- plugins         # Contains source files for plugins specific to this project
||- my_plugin        # A cargo project folder for this plugin crate
||| ZeusPlugin.toml  # Defines the plugin's metadata and entry point to Zeus
||| <other normal cargo files>
| .gitignore
| Zeus.toml        # Defines the project's metadata, build parameters, and dependencies to Zeus
```

### Zeus.toml

The *Zeus.toml* file defines metadata, build parameters and dependencies to be used
for the project it's in. A Zeus project can have only one Zeus.toml. The following
is an example Zeus.toml file.

```toml
[game]
name = "My Game"
version = "0.0.1"
authors = ["Jane Doe"]

[dependencies-tools]
# Version strings and how they're resolved to specific versions match cargo
launcher = "1.0.*"
editor = "1.0.5"
```

External plugin dependencies are planned but currently there is no good design for
them yet. Tool dependencies are brought in through git by looking up the highest
version that matches the given version string. If the tool is not in the list in
the toml file, Zeus will only bring in the tool if it's considered required. The
only required tools are "launcher" and "editor".


### Asset Processing

Zeus should process assets to prepare them for use at runtime. No designs are made
for this yet.
